.TH HSH 1 "January 2025" "Version 1.0" "HSH Manual"

.SH NAME
hsh \- simple shell

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsh
[file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hsh
is a simple UNIX command language interpreter that reads commands from either a file or standard input and executes them.

.SH INVOCATION
If no args are present and if the standard input of the shell is connected to a terminal, the shell is considered an interactive shell. An interactive shell prompts before each command and handles programming and command errors differently.

.SH COMMAND EXECUTION
After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are taken.

If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked. If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked.

If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, the shell searches each element of the PATH for a directory containing an executable file by that name. If the search is unsuccessful, the shell prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127.

If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
When a program is invoked, it is given an array of strings called the environment. This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form name=value.

The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child processes.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status of an executed command is the value returned by the waitpid system call or equivalent function. A command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure.

.SH BUILTINS
This section lists the builtin commands which are builtin because they need to perform some operation that can't be performed by a separate process.

.IP "exit [n]"
Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command executed.

.IP "env"
Print the current environment.

.IP "setenv [VARIABLE] [VALUE]"
Initialize a new environment variable, or modify an existing one.

.IP "unsetenv [VARIABLE]"
Remove an environment variable.

.SH SEE ALSO
sh(1)

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
.IP "JaysonPasquier (https://github.com/JaysonPasquier)"
.IP "Enzo949494 (https://github.com/Enzo949494)"